To replace an old prison-like home for abnormalchildren, located in the center of Milan (see the ticosmall pictures on this page), a new building has beenerected at the outskiris of town. It is based on prin-ciples entirely different from those which dicratedthe forms of the old building. There are no fences orbarriers, dormitories are designed to hold not morethan 12 beds. outdoor living is encouraged. The de-sign. only part of which has already been built, callsfor an entrance and gatekeeper's building (1-5), liv-ing quarters with gymnasiums, theaters and work-shops (6-9). schoolrooms (10-11), instructors liv-ing quarters (13) and the church (14). Even the . bru-tal . architectural lines are designed in keeping withpsycho-pedagogie criteria.

En remplacement d'un vieux pensionnat pourgarçons anormaux. an centre de Milan et fort sem-blable à une prison (voir les deux petites photos danscette page) on a construit au bord de la ville un nouvelorganisme, basé sur des principes exactement opposésà ceux qui avaient dieté les formes du vieil édifice.Pas de clôtures, des chambrées de 12 au maximum.In vie en plein air est favorisée. Le projet. dont onn'a encore réalisé qu'une partie, prévoit un corps d'en-trée et de contrôle (1-5), les séjours arec palestres.théâtres et ateliers (6-9). les écoles (10-11). les habi-tations des instituteurs (13) et l'église (14). Le bru-talisme 0 de l'architecteure réponde, lui aussi, à descritères psycho-pédogogiques.

Als Ersats für ein altes Erziehungsheim für abnor-male Kinder, das im Zentrum Mailands lag und ehereinem Gefängnis glich (siche die zicei Photos auf dieserSeite), ist am Stadtrand ein neuer Bau entstanden,Die dabei befolgten Principien sind jenen genan ent-gegengesetzt, die beim alten Heim befolgt wordenwaren. Es gibt keine Einfriedungen mehr, in keinemSchlafsaal schlafen mehr als 12 Jungen, das Lebenan der freien Luft wird gefordert. Erst ein Teil desProjekts ist verwirklicht; es sieht einen Eingangs-und Kontrollgebäudekomplex (1-5), die Aufenthalts-räume mit Theatern und Werkstätten (6-9), dieSchulen (10-11), die Lehrerwohnungen (13) und dieKirche FOR (14). Auch der . Brutalismus der Ar-chitektur entspricht psycho-pidigogischen Kriterien.Un antiguo internado para niños anormales situa-do en el centro de Milan y que mucho se parecia a unaprision (Véanse las dos pequeñas fotos de esta pá-gina) ha sido reemplazado por un nuevo organismo,ubicado mismo en en principios la periferia exactamente de la ciudad. opuestos Se basa a los elque dictaron las formas del viejo edificio. No hayen él encerramiento, los dormitorios no contienenmás de 12 ninos, la vida al aire libre se halla favo-recida. El proyecto, del enal sólo una parte hallaserealizada, preree un cuerpo de entrada y de control(1-5), las salas de estar con gimnasios, teatros yoficinas (6-9), las escuelas (10-11), las habitacionesde los institutores (13) y la iglesia (14). La 0 bruta-lidad de la arquitectura obedece también a criteriospsico-pedagógicos.

Legenda: 1. Ingresso strada di disimpegno e servizio: 2. Serra: 3. Servizigenerali: 4. Hall e soggiorno collettivo: 5, Convitto e infermeria: 6. Soggiornoall'aperto: 7. Centri di interesse, soggiorni per gruppi, direzione scolastica:8. Palestra-teatro: 9, Officine: 10. Seuole medie: 11, Seuole elementari: 12.Piscina di gioco: 13, Albergo degli istitutori, parlatorio e centro psicoteenico:14, Chiesa: 15. Monumento a Giovanni Segantini: 16, Ingresso principale: 17.Assistenza. direzione, presidenza. Tutti gli spazi non costruiti costituisconostanze verdi > per il gioco all'aperto, differenziato per gruppi.

L'a IV 682

